Confidential
The Author: Oleg Torbosov, Company founder
The Company: Whitewill.
For attention of: real estate brokers
Date of publication: 22.09.2018
Document version: No 2 dd. 05.09.2019

    About vacations and trips
    The reason for creating this letter: employees do not warn in advance their manager about the planned vacation, which is why the company has difficulties with shifts.
    The target of creating this document: to define the rules for going on vacation and personal travel for all employees.
      When brokers fly away to rest in warm countries, that's great. It is especially great when productive brokers fly away to rest after completing high-value deals. I even encourage employees for short trips abroad to unwind, relax and recover.
    In the course of company management, the rules have been formed, according to which you need to act if you plan a vacation. Vacation means the absence of a broker in the office for more than 4-5 working days. It can be a trip to relatives in a nearby city or a tour to Maldives. The main thing is that these days you cannot make arrangements for development tours or high-quality calls to clients.
    For vacation approval you must:
1. Inform the heads of your and HR departments about the planned vacation in writing at least 14 days before the departure. You can write by e-mail or via messenger and designate the date of the start of the trip and your return. Verbal communication does not count. You need to get confirmation from the manager that these days the company has the required number of brokers on shifts. In order to avoid the situation when several brokers have left at once in one period and there is no one to work. To increase the likelihood of vacation approval, you can notify your manager several months before the departure so that he can book these dates for you. The earlier you warn, the more likely it is that other employees will not have vacations on these days.

2. No duty can be taken 5-7 days prior to departure. This is done because a client may call you during your duty, but later you will not be able to arrange tours in appropriate way, and the client may be neglected.

3. Delegate to other brokers all your clients who plan to view units during your absence or who you plan to contact. Often before the vacation, employees did one trick: they agreed with all clients to make a call in two weeks, thereby clearing the vacation gap for themselves. You can't do that. This leads to the fact that upon returning from vacation, the broker realizes that the clients have already looked at the developments by themselves and some have even bought apartments. If you want to rest – delegate hot leads to those brokers who remain working. Engage your manager in the transfer process. If you are in touch with one of the clients, and they definitely do not plan developments tours during your absence, and you can prove this, then the manager may allow you to work with these clients later on.

4. The day before the vacation, you need to inform the office manager or the head of department about country you are traveling to. If you do not have any planned communication with clients for the period of your absence, and you are traveling abroad, then you can leave your work phone in the office to cover all calls by an employee in charge of it. If you are planning to communicate or text with a client, then depending on the country we connect roaming service to your work number. If you have not taken care of the roaming settings, the payment for the mobile service is carried out at your expense.
    If you plan to leave for several days, for example, on Friday, Saturday and Sunday, and during this period you do not have development tours or shifts and there are no important meetings, then just 2-3 days before departure warn your manager that you will not be in touch for these days.
    There are occasions when you urgently need to leave for family reasons because of illness of relatives or for some other sudden and unexpected events. In this case, be sure to notify your line manager or HR director by e-mail or via messenger. Designate the reason for the trip, the dates of absence and, if possible, information about key clients to be focused on: scheduled development tours, transactions and payments, mortgage approvals, clients arriving for tours for these days.
    The unauthorized disappearance of an employee without a prior written warning to the manager as well as absence during weekly coordination is considered to be a misconduct. In case of unapproved departure of an employee caused financial losses to the company such as the failure of a transaction, dissatisfied customers or client attrition, it can be attributed to crimes against the organization. This is a reason for carrying out an investigation and the employee may be suspended from work.
    The result: the broker understands the rules of going on vacation.
    
    
