Confidential
The Author: Oleg Torbosov, Company founder
The Company: Whitewill
For attention of: all employees
Date of publication: 06.05.2019
Document version: No 1 dd. 06.05.2019

    About Whitewill Organization Structure
    The reason for creating this letter: it is important for employees to understand who performs what functions in the company and who they can address to resolve certain issues.
    The target of creating this document: to provide data on all company functions and train employees how to use the organization chart.
    An organization chart an is a scheme of Company that shows what position is held by a particular employee, what functions he has and what product he should produce, as well as how the sequence of operations is arranged within organization.
    Next to each block which this or that staff member is responsible for, in the organizational chart employees’ valuable final product (VFP) is indicated. For the production of this product, the team member receives a salary and support from the company. An organization pays for work only if it is needed for business, is valuable to the company and meets the established requirements.

A scaled-down version of Whitewill organization chart. Do not try to view and distinguish all the functions in this scheme, you’ll find a full-fledged large version of the Company structure in the office.
    
    In order for the company to develop and produce its valuable product, it shares all the necessary functions among all its employees. This allows to increase work efficiency, since everyone is responsible for their own field of ??activity and knows their jobs well. For example, an accountant is well versed in 1C program, a marketing manager is familiar with Yandex advertising, a broker feels at home with a database of developments, and a designer is proficient in a graphics tool.
    If the company is well organized, each member of staff knows who to contact and on what issue, there is no chaos and the work is done quickly.
    Organization chart content
    The Company organizational chart consists of seven departments, each of them has its own name and number. In our company they are the following:
    Administrative department;
    HR department;
    Commercial department;
    Finance Department;
    Department of Real Estate and Development;
    Quality Department;
    PR department
    Each department has 3 units. Each unit has its own serial number. A particular VFP is designated on the organizational chart for each department and unit. The manager is responsible for the production of the entire VFP of the whole department in his charge, and the head of the unit holds responsibilities for the VFP of his unit.
    The numbers of departments and units dictate the sequence of performing functions in the overall production process of Company VFP. The general sequence of functions and the numbering of departments and units is shown in this figure.
    
          As an example, let's take a look at how this is organized in our Company. To attract a client, the Marketing Unit makes an advertisement, the customer clicks the website and finds there a presentation and description of the development that have been prepared in advance by the employees of our Content Unit. The request is sent to the broker of the Sales unit, he appoints show-tours and sells the apartment, after which the Income and Accounting Unit issues an invoice, and Quality Control Unit clarifies with the client whether he liked the service. PR department announces in our social networks about a closed good deal, creating a positive Company image and getting new customers.
    Each separate function on the organizational chart is called a sector, regardless of whether this function is performed by one employee, in combination with the other functions of the chart, or it concerns a large unit with a dozen team members. This is necessary for there’s no need to change the organizational scheme in the process of Company development. For instance, the Statistics Sector in the HR department is called the «sector», even though this function requires half of one working day of one employee.
    In order an organization chart to be an efficiency-enhancing tool, every employee must:
    – know and perform all their functions as approved by the chart;
    – know all the main functions of each of the departments and units of the company;
    – demand and achieve by any means available that functions have to be performed by other employees, irrespective of the position on the organizational chart.
    See below all Company departments with a description of their units.
    Administrative Department [No. 7]
    This department manages the operations of all structural divisions of the Company. It does strategic planning, develops or approves all regulatory documents, including Company organizational chart. This department is responsible for ensuring that the Company delivers a product of demand and develops successfully.
    Unit 21. Founder's Office.
    This Unit is in charge of strategic business issues. It organizes activities and is engaged in Company development, controls that the company's assets are reliably protected and growing.
    The Founder's office manages the Company through regulations and strategic planning. These documents go down the command lines from the Founder, via the CEO and his deputies, and so on - to every linear employee.
    Unit 20. Office of Official Affairs.
    This Unit guarantees safe Company operations. The office is responsible for the legal protection of the Company's interests, it develops and reviews all contracts necessary for the company's activities, makes available all required licenses and other official documents corresponding to Company business. The Unit supervises the work of the security service and interacts with government authorities.
    Unit 19. CEO Office.
    This Unit implements the founder’s plans and achieves a high level of production in the company. We can say that the task of the CEO is to get the maximum volume of product from the company within the framework of the rules and objectives set by the Office of the founder. The CEO reports to the Founder.
    The CEO has subordinate deputies who report to him. For the coordinated actions of all structural divisions of the Company and for synergy in Company development, the CEO manages the Executive Board and the Advisory Board. The Executive Board consists of the CEO and his deputies, the Board is in charge of the development and organization of the departments and the implementation of strategic plans. The Advisory Board includes heads of departments, the board plans and approves the work of all departments for the purpose of revenue generating and Company profit growth.
    HR department [No 1]
    This department is at the lead of organizational development of the Company, it literally builds the company by hiring and training people. For this reason, the department is shown on the organization chart slightly higher than the other structural divisions.
    An organization is comprised of specific functions that effectively correlate with each other. Therefore, this department monitors what functions need to be strengthened to the effect that efficiency increases, employs and introduces new personnel and provides all specialists with the tools necessary for work: workplaces, phones, computers and others.
    1. Unit of Employment.
    This Unit recruits people who are qualified and can fulfill their duties. It draws up the required HR documentation, issues applicable position descriptions that help a new employee quickly to become familiar with their job, to start making their products, and to contribute to the development of the entire Company. Also the Unit makes sure that the staff is aware of the responsibilities and company policies that apply to their jobs.
    2. Unit of communications.
    The Unit makes available fast movement of visitors, incoming calls, mail, documents and parcels within the Company and outside it. In addition, this Unit comprises the electronic communications sector, which maintains all Company’s computer and communication equipment, controls its smooth operation and a good service for all employees of the Company. It administers that office experts are supplied with everything they need for work.
    3. Unit of inspections and reports.
    It is crucial with a view to pinpointing the true causes of decline or improvement in the performance of corporate departments, units or sectors. Inspections are carried out to find the actual reason, and reports are needed so that the employees could influence the work of other structural units of the company whereas operations depend on them. The Unit analyzes the staff reports and the check results, collects and reviews statistics from all structural divisions of the Company, controls that all fundamentals of Company management keep in force and are not on the downward path.
    The main goal of the Department No 1 is to attain that the company has the required employees capable to competently perform their work, who are provided with essential means of communication and produce their products.

    Commercial Department [No. 2]
    This is where the marketing and sales functions are concentrated. The department's operations include attracting clients from advertising campaigns in the Internet. After interested customers have contacted the Company, show-tours are arranged and the deal is made.
    4. Marketing Unit
    By making adverts, the Unit leads to a large number of client requests submitted to the Company.
    5. Content Unit.
    The Unit creates presentations, catalogs, videos, articles that enable quickly to acquaint any concerned person with our real estate offers and with the Company itself.
    6. Sales Unit.
    The main target of this Unit is to sell developments from Whitewill portfolio. The sales team has liability to make provision for a high income and profit margin of the Company sufficient to cover all costs and Whitewill development. Here we also have sectors for mortgages, contract drafting and deals support.
    Financial Department [No. 3]
    This department includes functions that we used to call finance and accounting.
    7. Unit of income.
    This Unit guarantees that all funds received by the Company are correctly accounted for and fixed by the documentation, and the information in the database is reflected accordingly, so it can be used for subsequent analysis and management. The Unit keeps accurate records of invoices issued to developers and controls the receipt of payments.
    8. Unit of expenses.
    This Unit holds control of the correct use of funds. In this regard, income and expenditure are planned so that we can cover all company’s needs and the Company could keep money and establish financial reserves. The Unit prepares information for financial planning, forecasts income and expenses. Then it makes payments on approved costs. Apart from this, the Unit calculates and pays salaries and fees to brokers.
    9. Accounting Unit.
    This Unit keeps all accounting documents and records. The purpose of the Accounting Unit is to manage financial and tangible assets of the Company.
    When a department does its job well, Company assets are protected and growing.
    Department of Real Estate and Product Design [No. 4]
    The task of this department is to find new real estate for sale, maintain a convenient database of all real estate and post information on the company's websites.
    10. Unit of real estate investigation.
    This Unit deals with owners, works-out the search for indispensable real-estate and updates all data on it. Photos of our real estate objects are also made ready here.
    11. Database Unit.
    The aim of this Unit is to develop, fill and constantly actualize the database which is used for brokers’ job.
    12. Unit of Product Design
    This Unit develops and completes Company websites from design to introduction. It works to increase the speed of web operations and researches clients’ behavior of on the sites.
    Quality Department [No. 5]
    The department creates the proper quality of Company activities and high quality job of the employees.
    13. Quality Unit
    Quality management starts with continuous monitoring of the Company's product in correspondence with established quality standards. Another important part of quality control is clarification of customers’ opinions, identifying their dissatisfaction. For this purpose, the Unit employees make telephone calls to clients who have purchased real estate and identify all deviations in the quality of the Company's products and services.
    This Unit also makes a ruling of disappointed customers. Any discontented client should be addressed to this Unit to find out what is the reason for his dissatisfaction. If there has been an issue with the employees’ quality of work or company's quality of service, the customer’s complaint must be settled by this Unit. A settled client is a customer pleased to continue his cooperation with the Company.
    14. Unit of Staff Development
    The reason for any quality deviation is usually incompetence of some of Company’s employees. This Unit deals with lack of skills. For that end it conducts certification and arranges training for staff members. Education materials are compiled primarily for those areas where it is necessary to increase the level of competence and potential of the team.
    15. Correction Unit
    This Unit is liable to analyze all deviations from established quality standards, to develop quality improvement programs and to control their execution. To be able to draw up improvement programs for different areas of company's business, in this Unit we have a Quality Council, where the best specialists of the organization from various departments take part.
    PR-department [No. 6]
    This department makes arrangements about the creation of Company’s good image and involving partners and banks for cooperation; it holds events and takes responsibilities for the Company's social networks.


    16. PR Unit
    This Unit creates an attractive image - the basis for trust in the company on the part of developers and clients. In order to make a good image, we prepare publications in Mass media, organize special events with customers. One of the main tasks of this Unit is to make a good impression of the company among employees and contracting parties. The Unit also develops a marketable corporate brand, which starts from office design and the look of company team. The main intention of the Unit is to tailor the image of a strong, competent company that truly cares about its customers.
    17. Initial Contact Unit
    This Unit organizes and holds events for clients and investors with the purpose of introducing our company, as well as provides consulting for developers to obtain new projects for exclusive sales.
    18. Unit of partner management
    This Unit engages real estate agencies, private brokers and banks and cooperates with them in order they provide new potential clients to the Company.
    Company size
    No matter how many employees work for a company, it is necessary that every function of the organizational chart is being performed. Otherwise, the business will not be successful as there will be «holes» in its operational stream.
    With the growth of the company, the organizational chart does not fundamentally change, but the functions inside are rotated. The organizational scheme is filled by the employees from top to bottom, first the positions of managers are assigned, then their subordinates. For example, if a department is just being organized, despite the fact that this department includes several functions, only one person will work there at first. He will hold the position of the department head, while he will carry out duties and make the products of all sectors that are in this department.
    
    Communication lines
    Two different types of lines are used for communication between Company employees.
    «Command lines» are the lines that connect leaders and subordinates. Command lines run from the top executive, through the department heads, to the frontline employees. Along these lines instructions and orders move from top to bottom, while proposals, plans and execution reports requiring approval flow from bottom to top.
    «Communication lines» are the lines through which employees from different departments and sectors collaborate with each other. They are used to transmit messages, responses, information, requests, and so on.
    Command lines run from top to bottom, through the entire chain of leaders, communication lines go directly from one employee to another.
    An example of using the command line: if the owner of the company wants the manager to change something in his work with some customers, he gives an order, which goes through the head of the sales department, and the head passes this instruction to the sales manager, achieves its execution and, having received a report on the task, checks it, and sends it to the owner.
    In the event a broker needs to receive data on when a presentation for a particular development will be ready, he does not go to his manager, but he addresses directly the person who is in charge of presentations and in the same way receives a direct answer. In this case, the communication line is used.
    Every employee of the company should know and understand the following:
    – feel the difference between command and communication lines;
    – use the correct line type when interacting with other employees and managers;
    – know the organizational chart in order to deal with the right members of staff;
    – require others to use command and communication lines correctly.
    Obligations of the employee in relation to the organizational chart
    1. Know the organizational chart.
    Each employee should know well the organizational chart of his division, each manager must know the entire organizational diagram of the Company. Knowledge is considered good enough when the member of team can determine without delay who is responsible for every individual function in the company.
    2. Produce personal product.
    To deliver a valuable final product of personal functions in full and with proper quality, realizing that the success of overall Company VFP production depends on this.
    3. Demand from others delivering of their products.
    Understanding that the success of each employee relies on others, demand and get the other workers of the company to have their own products delivered.
    4. Do not fulfill work for others.
    If you receive an order or request that does not belong to your area of ??responsibility, make sure that it is directed to the employee who incurs liabilities for it in correspondence with the organizational chart.
    If you perform duties that refer to another specialist, as dictated by the organizational chart, you contribute to his irresponsibility, making him weak. Such functions, which you fulfill for someone else, create risks to the whole company. If you are in charge of some business, strive for clearly indicating it on the chart. If an employee executes some activities, and this is not reflected in the organizational scheme, then it will be impossible to manage it all.
    5. Use the correct lines.
    Use the communication and command lines properly, in the right way moving components to the appropriate positions in alignment with the organizational chart. Require all other employees to use the fast flow system.
    6. Make suggestions for the improvement of the organizational chart.
    Subject to an employee discovers that some function required for the company to deliver its product is missing in the chart let him inform the HR department so that the organizational scheme can be supplemented.
    The result: The employee understands the content of the organizational chart, knows the main divisions in the Company and their functions and is aware of his own responsibilities in agreement with the chart.
    
    
